Autopilot 1.3.0 docs (#914)
portworx/pxdocs: content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/autopilot/how-to-use/approvals/walkthrough-github/_index.md

---
title: "Action approvals using GitOps and Github"
linkTitle: "Approvals using GitOps and Github"
keywords: autopilot
description: Instructions on how to enable approvals for actions resulting from autopilot rules using GitOps and Github
series: aut-approval-walkthroughs
noicon: true
weight: 200
---

## Pre-requisites

{{<info>}}**flux**: This guide uses [flux](https://fluxcd.io/) as your GitOps operator. However, the concepts will apply to other GitOps implementations as well.{{</info>}}

* Autopilot 1.3.0 and above
* It is recommended to go through the [Action approvals using kubectl](/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/autopilot/how-to-use/approvals/walkthrough) guide first if you haven't done so already. It will get you familiar with basic approval concepts which are applicable here.

> ## Overview 

Author: I kept an overview since there are many new concepts here. So instead of having the users perform a long sequence of steps. I wanted to give a high level view of what's coming.

The high workflow of using GitOps based approvals would be as follows. 

1. Setup GitOps in your cluster using [flux](https://fluxcd.io/). 
2. Configure Autopilot to provide access to your Github repository used for GitOps
3. Create AutopilotRule with approvals enabled
4. Approve or Decline the actions by approving or closing Github PRs respectively

> Let's look at above 4 steps in detail. 

Author: I would leave this around

> Let's look at above 4 steps in detail. 

Reviewer: We should remove the royal "we" then. 

```suggestion
The following sections contain these 4 steps in detail:
```

## Step 1: Setup GitOps using flux

The [Get started with Flux](https://docs.fluxcd.io/en/latest/tutorials/get-started/#get-started-with-flux) is a good resource for a starting implementation. 

* Before using it for Autopilot, it's recommended to test if the GitOps integration works in general. Use the example specs provided in the get started guide above to verify it. 

> * By default, Flux has a 5 minute git poll interval. To save time during testing, you can edit to flux deployment in the flux namespace and add `--git-poll-interval=30s` in the args to change this to 30 seconds.

Author: Want to keep the small case `flux` here since that is the actual name of the deployment and the namespace.

> * By default, Flux has a 5 minute git poll interval. To save time during testing, you can edit to flux deployment in the flux namespace and add `--git-poll-interval=30s` in the args to change this to 30 seconds.

Author: need small case `flux` also for the deployment name. will change it.

      name: aut-github
      namespace: kube-system
    type: Opaque
    data:
      GITHUB_TOKEN: <enter-base64-token-here>
  ```

### Step 2b: Provide repository details

We will be adding a new github provider in the Autopilot ConfigMap `autopilot-config`.  You can find it using:

```text
kubectl get configmap  -A | grep autopilot-config
```

In the `providers` section, add a new item for the github provider. In the below example, update value of: 

* `user` with the name of the Github user or organization for the repo
* `repo` with the name of the repo
* `folder` with the name of the folder where autopilot should create new manifests for approval purposes. This needs to be a folder that flux is syncing with your cluster.
* `author` with the name of the Git author to use for the PRs Autopilot will create for approval purposes
* `email` with the email of the Git user to use for the PRs Autopilot will create for approval purposes.

  ```text
    providers:
       - name: github
         type: github-scm
         github:
           user: harsh-px
           repo: flux-get-started
           folder: workloads
           author: harsh-px
           email: harsh@portworx.com
  ```

> Above sample ConfigMap is written for the [harsh-px/flux-get-started](https://github.com/harsh-px/flux-get-started) repo.

Author: We can use placeholders. But I also want an actual example so they don't have to guess what to replace the placeholder with.

Create a YAML spec for the autopilot rule named `autopilotrule-approval-example.yaml` and place the following content inside it:

```text
apiVersion: autopilot.libopenstorage.org/v1alpha1
kind: AutopilotRule
metadata:
  name: volume-resize
spec:
  #### enforcement indicates that actions from this rule need approval
  enforcement: approvalRequired
  ##### selector filters the objects affected by this rule given labels
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: postgres
  ##### namespaceSelector selects the namespaces of the objects affected by this rule
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      type: db
  ##### conditions are the symptoms to evaluate. All conditions are AND'ed
  conditions:
    # volume usage should be less than 50%
    expressions:
    - key: "100 * (px_volume_usage_bytes / px_volume_capacity_bytes)"
      operator: Gt
      values:
        - "50"
  ##### action to perform when condition is true
  actions:
  - name: openstorage.io.action.volume/resize
    params:
      # resize volume by scalepercentage of current size
      scalepercentage: "100"
      # volume capacity should not exceed 400GiB
      maxsize: "400Gi"
```

> 2. Wait till the conditions in the rule to be met on the objects. For example, if the rule is to expand a volume when it's usage is greater than 50%, wait for this condition.

Author: They are steps the user must perform

You can list the Kubernetes events for this rule and wait until your rule is in the _ActionAwaitingApproval_ state.

```text
kubectl get events --field-selector involvedObject.kind=AutopilotRule,involvedObject.name=volume-resize -n default -w
```
```output
LAST SEEN   TYPE     REASON       OBJECT                        MESSAGE
10m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Initializing => Normal
67s         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Normal => Triggered
34s         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Triggered => ActionAwaitingApproval
```

{{<info>}}If you only see `Initializing => Normal` as the event, this means postgres is still writing data to your volume and usage has not crossed 50%. {{</info>}}

> At this point, you should see a PR in the Github repository you configured in [Step 2](#) to approve the action. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see a PR in the Github repository you configured in [Step 2](#) to approve the action. 
```

> You will also see an `actionapproval` object in the cluster. However, we will not directly update it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will also see an `actionapproval` object in the cluster. However, Portworx will not directly update it.
```

Author: By `we` I meant the user going through this guide. The user must not directly update it.

Author: Change it to `you` to be specific.

```text
kubectl get actionapproval -n pg1
```
```output
NAME                                                     APPROVAL-STATE
volume-resize-pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e   pending
```

### Step 4b: Approve or decline
 
#### Approve the PR

> To approve, approve and merge the PR in Github. Once approved, flux (or other GitOps provider) will sync the Github changes in your cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Approve and merge the PR in Github. Once approved, Flux (or other GitOps provider) will sync the GitHub changes in your cluster. 
```

Once Autopilot sees the approved actionapproval object in the cluster, you will see that the actions will progress. 

> Let's list the actionapproval again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. List the actionapproval again. The `APPROVAL-STATE` should show as `approved`:
```

What should they look for this time?

```text
kubectl get actionapproval -n pg1
```
```output
NAME                                                     APPROVAL-STATE
volume-resize-pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e   approved 
```

> Let's list the events again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. List the events again:
```
What should the user note about this output?

```
```output
LAST SEEN   TYPE     REASON       OBJECT                        MESSAGE
19m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Initializing => Normal
10m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Normal => Triggered
9m47s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Triggered => ActionAwaitingApproval
8m52s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from ActionAwaitingApproval => ActiveActionsPending
7m51s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from ActiveActionsPending => ActiveActionsInProgress
7m20s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from ActiveActionsInProgress => ActiveActionsTaken
```

#### Decline the PR

> To decline, you can simply close the PR in Github. Autopilot will detect this and mark the action are declined in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To decline, close the PR in Github. Autopilot will detect this and mark the action are declined in the cluster.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Verify that approval was declined by entering the `kubectl get actionapproval` command:
```

```text
kubectl get actionapproval -n pg1
```
```output
NAME                                                     APPROVAL-STATE
volume-resize-pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e   declined
``` 

> 

Reviewer: 2. Enter the `kubectl get events` command:

Author: added

```text
kubectl get events --field-selector involvedObject.kind=AutopilotRule,involvedObject.name=volume-resize -n default -w
```
```output
LAST SEEN   TYPE     REASON       OBJECT                        MESSAGE
19m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Initializing => Normal
10m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Normal => Triggered
9m47s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Triggered => ActionAwaitingApproval
8m52s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from ActionAwaitingApproval => ActiveActionsDeclined
```

> Actions for the object will continue to stay in declined state until the `actionapproval` object is present and has approval state as declined. When you want Autopilot to resume monitoring this object, delete the actionapproval object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actions for the object will continue to stay in a declined state until the `actionapproval` object is present and has a declined approval state.
```

> For e.g for the above case,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. When you want Autopilot to resume monitoring this object, delete the actionapproval object:
```

---
title: "Action approvals using GitOps and Github"
linkTitle: "Approvals using GitOps and Github"
keywords: autopilot
description: Instructions on how to enable approvals for actions resulting from autopilot rules using GitOps and Github
series: aut-approval-walkthroughs
noicon: true
weight: 200
---

## Prerequisites

> {{<info>}}**NOTE:**: This guide uses [flux](https://fluxcd.io/) as your GitOps operator. However, the concepts will apply to other GitOps implementations as well.{{</info>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<info>}}**NOTE:** This guide uses [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/) as your GitOps operator. However, the concepts will apply to other GitOps implementations as well.{{</info>}}
```

    data:
      GITHUB_TOKEN: <enter-base64-token-here>
  ```

### Step 2b: Provide repository details

1. Add a new GitHub provider in the Autopilot ConfigMap `autopilot-config`. You can find it using:

    ```text
    kubectl get configmap  --all-namespaces | grep autopilot-config
    ```

2. In the `providers` section, add a new item for the GitHub provider. In the example below, update the following values: 

    * `user` with the name of the Github user or organization for the repo.
    * `repo` with the name of the repo.
    * `folder` with the name of the folder where autopilot should create new manifests for approval purposes. This needs to be a folder that flux is syncing with your cluster.
    * `author` with the name of the Git author to use for the PRs Autopilot will create for approval purposes
    * `email` with the email of the Git user to use for the PRs Autopilot will create for approval purposes.

    ```text
      providers:
       - name: github
         type: github-scm
         github:
           user: harsh-px
           repo: flux-get-started
           folder: workloads
           author: harsh-px
           email: harsh@portworx.com
    ```

>     Above sample ConfigMap is written for the [harsh-px/flux-get-started](https://github.com/harsh-px/flux-get-started) repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{<info>}}**NOTE:** The sample ConfigMap above is written for the [harsh-px/flux-get-started](https://github.com/harsh-px/flux-get-started) repo.{{</info>}}
```

* Create a YAML spec for the autopilot rule named `autopilotrule-approval-example.yaml` and place the following content inside it:

```text
apiVersion: autopilot.libopenstorage.org/v1alpha1
kind: AutopilotRule
metadata:
  name: volume-resize
spec:
  #### enforcement indicates that actions from this rule need approval
  enforcement: approvalRequired
  ##### selector filters the objects affected by this rule given labels
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: postgres
  ##### namespaceSelector selects the namespaces of the objects affected by this rule
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      type: db
  ##### conditions are the symptoms to evaluate. All conditions are AND'ed
  conditions:
    # volume usage should be less than 50%
    expressions:
    - key: "100 * (px_volume_usage_bytes / px_volume_capacity_bytes)"
      operator: Gt
      values:
        - "50"
  ##### action to perform when condition is true
  actions:
  - name: openstorage.io.action.volume/resize
    params:
      # resize volume by scalepercentage of current size
      scalepercentage: "100"
      # volume capacity should not exceed 400GiB
      maxsize: "400Gi"
```

> * Wait till the conditions in the rule to be met on the objects. For example, if the rule is to expand a volume when it's usage is greater than 50%, wait for this condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Wait until the objects meet the conditions specified in the rule. For example, if the rule is to expand a volume when it's usage is greater than 50%, wait for this condition.
```

* Once the conditions are met, list of the action approvals in the namespace. Identity the item in the list for the concerned object.

> * Update the `approvalState` field in the ActionApproval object spec to `approved` or `declined`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update the `approvalState` field in the ActionApproval object spec to `approved` or `declined`.
```

* Based on whether you approved or declined in the previous step, the action will either proceed or get declined respectively.

### Step 3c: Apply specs

Once you've designed your specs, deploy them:

```text
kubectl apply -f autopilotrule-approval-example.yaml
kubectl apply -f namespace.yaml
kubectl apply -f postgres-sc.yaml
kubectl apply -f postgres-vol.yaml -n pg1
kubectl apply -f postgres-app.yaml -n pg1
```

## Step 4: Approve or Decline actions

> ### Step 4a: Wait till conditions are triggered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4a: Wait until conditions are triggered
```

```
```output
LAST SEEN   TYPE     REASON       OBJECT                        MESSAGE
10m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Initializing => Normal
67s         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Normal => Triggered
34s         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Triggered => ActionAwaitingApproval
```

{{<info>}}**NOTE:** If you only see `Initializing => Normal` as the event, Postgres is still writing data to your volume and usage has not crossed 50%. {{</info>}}

You should see a PR in the Github repository you configured in [Step 2](#) to approve the action. 

You will also see an `actionapproval` object in the cluster. However, you will not directly update it.

```text
kubectl get actionapproval -n pg1
```
```output
NAME                                                     APPROVAL-STATE
volume-resize-pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e   pending
```

> ### Step 4b: Approve or decline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4b: Approve or decline the PR
```
